Now that you've seen how you can get
an SVG from a site like Font Awesome and
include it in your webpage, make it
accessible, and you of course already
know how to work with text and
background images on a webpage.
It's time for
you to take a stab at this next exercise.
So the last thing I'd like for
you to do here in chapter three,
is to try building
the footer here on your own.
So starting with the opening CodePen.
Make sure you put in your information,
your name and
the title that you're going to have,
add your icons for LinkedIn, GitHub,
email, whatever else you wanna add.
And then mark it up, add your styling, and
see if you can make your footer look
like the footer that I am showing here.
And I anticipate this is gonna take you
somewhere between 15 and 30 minutes, so
give it a try and
I'll give you my answer momentarily.
All right, so I hope that that went well
for you and that you now have a footer
that looks awesome and
kind of like the one that I have here.
So let me go through what I've got for
code and so forth.
So this is the footer of the web page.
So a great way to mark the data
is with the footer element.
So there we are,
there's the footer element.
Inside of that we have a div
with a class of container.
So this is just like we have been doing
throughout the course where we had that
outside section except in this case,
it happens to be the footer
instead of a section element.
And then we have a div
with a class of container.
The name, Jen Kramer, plus my title
seem to be pretty important down here in
the footer, so
I've marked that up with an h2.
Then I have my list of links.
So here's all the ways that
you can contact me, and
you'll see here that these are set
up pretty much the same way.
So here's the LinkedIn1,
with a link to my LinkedIn page and
then the aria-label of LinkedIn so
that people who are using screen
readers will know what it is.
And then of course in the SVG itself,
we want to set the aria hidden to true so
that we skip over those SVGs and
the screen reader doesn't try to read it.
Okay, so
we repeat that same process with GitHub.
And then with email, remember, again, the
email link is slightly different that's
going to be mailed to colon with your
email address, and an aria-label of email.
You'll have to go to Font Awesome
to go download that SVG but
I showed you how to do that earlier.
And then finally at the very end
of everything here I have my
copyright statement.
And what the way that I've marked
that up is with a paragraph and
I've actually used the small HTML element.
Now, the small element was something
that was frowned upon for a really long
period of time, of course was invented
back when small meant make the text small.
Today that small has now been repurposed
into a meaning that means this is like
the fine print.
So this would be the legalese at
the bottom of your web page or
the copyright statement.
Something that's not necessarily
all that important but
legally we've got to put it there,
so there you go.
There's my copyright statement.
So that's why I use the small element for
that.
If you didn't use the small element for
yours, absolutely fine,
it's fine with just a paragraph.
Notice that as I make my page bigger and
smaller,
that image does change a little bit here.
I have a little trick in the CSS that's
going on that shows you different
parts of the image as I changed this.
So let's look at the CSS for
that piece of it.
Okay, so here in the footer I have my
layer of footer that's set up here
automatically and then inside
of that we have my footer style,
very similar to the other
sections that we've seen before.
I'm centering my text,
I've added some padding.
I gave it a background color of black
just in case, for whatever reason,
the image doesn't load quickly.
Then we have the image itself,
don't repeat it, center it on the page.
The line of code that makes it do this
thing where, it's showing different
parts of the image is this line right
here, background size of cover.
And so what that's going to do is
basically take the image that's here and
resize it such that it's filling in
the space that's available to it.
Because the dimensions of the viewport
here are changing different,
it needs different amounts
of image in order to show.
And that's why like when
it gets small like this,
you can actually see the island and
the sunset down here at the bottom,
as opposed to when it is wide,
when you see just the stars on the top.
If you didn't have that line of code,
that's not the end of the world.
What it would look like is this instead,
you would see the stars swirling around,
and it would pretty much
be the same no matter what.
You would just have the swirl kind of
scrolling off the side of the screen, and
that works absolutely fine as well.
There's nothing wrong with that, but
I just really like the sunset down at
the bottom, so I added that line of code,
which dealt with the layout of that
image a little bit differently.
Then finally down here at the bottom,
we have our footer, ul, so
of course I had all of my
icons inside of a list.
So we did all the same things that we
did before with the navigation bar.
We've turned off the padding and I guess
I've left a little bit of margin on
the top and bottom so
that those icons stand out.
We've set them up with Flexbox,
they show up in a row.
They have a little bit of a gap in between
them so that we have plenty of room for
for clickability.
We have made our SVG is turned white and
they are green when you hover over them.
And that pretty much takes Care
of the footer for the web page.
It's a lot.
It's a lot, but we've talked about
all those lines of code before.